Hello and welcome.
This lecture is about getting to the first stage of our fighting system fighting input where if we let
me clear the log if we click on an enemy capsule then it prints out a love message and this log message
is actually coming from a fighter component on the player.
So that's the starting point where we're going to actually start and a procedure to attack the there
component that the enemy here from and a player.
This is the starting point getting that input to the fighter component so let's dive in and see how
it's done.
So at the moment we've got an enemy but we have no way of attacking it.
So what we want to do is introduce both a component for combat for us to be able to fight.
And for us to be able to activate that component by clicking on the enemy.
So the logical place for a component for us to do this same fighting is going to be on the player itself.
And we're going to need a new script for that.
So I'm going to go ahead and create a new file a new folder first of all.
So let's go into the scripts and create a folder there and it's going to be called combat and under
that I am going to create a C sharp script called fighter dot c s and in there I am going to create
a model behavior.
I'm going to use the snippet in V.S. code and I'm going to stick that in a namespace.
Now we started this good practice of using namespace as I'm going to create a namespace for and we use
the snippet RPG dot combat.
So that's created a new name.
Basically we have it before and I can put my fighter script in there.
Once our fighter going to do.
Well it's public API at the moment.
Let's just keep it simple.
It's going to attack something it's going to take nothing return void and it's going to attack.
And at the moment because we don't have anything that it can actually do I'm going to just print something
out and be like Hey Ya take that you short squat peasant something like that.
So there's going be obviously gonna be proper functionality in here that involves moving to the target
and then actually playing attack animations doing damage all that stuff.
That's where it's going to reside in this fighter class.
So.
Well let's go ahead and add this onto the player while we're at it.
So I'll go into the play a prefab and add a component called fighter.
So now we've got a fighter a mover and a player controller all on this player.
So that seems to be making some what some sense now we have to enable it to actually click on this object.
How is it going to know that this is an object that we can attack.
Well for that we're going to create a another script.
Also in combat also in the combat namespace because it's all to do with that combat behavior and it's
going to be what are we going to call it the combat target perhaps
for now.
Because the important thing is that it just allows us to target things for combat.
So I'm going to create a model behavior again and I'm going to stick this in a namespace called RPG
or combat.
See this time it's also completing it because it's not the first time I've created this namespace and
then I'll put the combat target in there which at the moment is just going to have no functionality
it's full it's going to serve as a place holder for us to to know that this thing this capsule this
enemy capsule is something we can attack.
So I'm going to add the component.
It's going to be the combat target again and again I'm going to apply that to the enemy prefab as well
so added component applied to prefab.
Obviously you could open up the prefab Ed and do that directly that way as well.
OK.
So enough of that we won't actually get on with doing something.
This player controller needs to call to that fighter method in order for us to actually start that whole
process of attacking the enemy.
How we gonna do that.
Well at the moment the play controller is only doing well it's only doing movement based stuff.
In fact we can make that really explicit by selecting everything that's in it update and you can either
hit the light bulb or you can hit control period and it'll give us some options here in this case it's
extract method and that's what we want to do.
I want to extract a strategy it's a new method it calls a new method and I can rename that with F2 and
I'm gonna call it interact with movement like so.
So we've got a new method in updates every update we interact with movement which involves getting the
cursor and moving and getting the whether the mouse button is down and moving to the cursor basically
what we want to do is add in a new function in here which is going to be interact with combat like so
obviously that's not created yet.
So again with the little light bulb or with controlled dot control period you can generate the method
automatically and they go.
We've got a interact with combat.
Now what is it we want to do here at this point.
Well I think what we want to do is recast but there is a little bit of a thing that we should look out
for.
For example what if if I'm playing Let's just try and set up a scenario here where if I take this capsule
and I put him a little bit behind the tree so that he's just about poking out.
See if I can see that in the game move over.
It's not working because of my my code in here they interact with combat.
This shouldn't throw anything if I want it to actually be able to run let's try that again.
So I'm going to move over here.
The tree will be able to obscure where I'm going but I can still click to move as you can see.
So what we want to do is if even if there's something obscuring it when we click on the capsule it should
attack it because that's high priority right.
Even if we can't see it we want to be able to attack it.
So how does that work.
Because currently our right cast will return the first thing it hits from the camera.
Well one way of doing this is using a very similar function to the physics Reich has called Physics.
If I can type correctly in physics top Reich asked all now this signature as it says here I is.
There's a few of them.
There's eight of them.
They can do recast all with vectors but there is one that takes in a Ray I think just a rake.
This one the last one takes in just a ray very much the same as our physic Ray CAS but instead of having
an out parameter for the hit result what it does have is a list of hit results so it returns all the
things it hit it gets carries ongoing going it's like a bullet with a lot of strength that just passes
through all of its targets and keep is a very you know it's an accountant bullet because it keeps track
of who it hit as it went along.
So the idea here is we have this rake has to hit results so let's do recast hit erase what's gonna be
coming out of this and then we'll just call this the hits and then what we were passing in is the ray.
Now we have to produce the ray basically in exactly the same way as we were doing and moved the cursor.
So because it's exactly the same and I'd like it to be exactly the same I'm going to select the code
that generates the ray and I'm going to extract it so extract method like so and it has automatically
noticed this is quite cool it has automatically called it get Ray because I think it's done that but
either based on the type or based on the name of the variable.
And that's pretty cool and quite clever.
I just want to tweak it a little bit rather than calling it get round going to call it the get mouse
right.
So it's obvious that it's the ray based on the mouse position and the other little tweak we can do now
because this variable is practically just noise.
Now if I select the variable and hit control dot again he can see that there's quite a lot that visual
studio code can do for us it is in line this temporary asking me to inline the temporary variable which
basically means it goes and replaces the variable in that recast which is pretty cool.
Pretty handy.
And now that means that I can do this.
Get mouse Ray in our ray cast all and the result coming back from it.
After I put my SIM card on the end of the line is going to be a list of hits and I can for each loop
over those.
So if you've not come across a for each loop before we probably have come across a for each loop.
I hope if you haven't.
It's pretty straightforward.
It is a loop very much like a for loop any sort of loop where it will execute the code in the block
for every item in a list of items.
So we're gonna do a for each of recast hit and call and call that single item a hit in the collection
which is going to be the hits.
So for each hit in hits it makes quite low sense.
This code block is going to run for each hit.
So this is the place where we can do something with those hits we can see whether we have hit a combat
component and if so we can start attacking it.
So this is where I recommend you read up on the documentation for recast hit to see how you can get
hold of the object that was hit.
Maybe you can get hold of the game object maybe you can get hold of a component on the game object which
will allow you to then get hold of the combat component something along those lines and the end game
is going to be this challenge to call the attack function in our fighter component.
So you are going to find the results that have a combat target.
So you're going to need to do a get component check whether it has a combat target that sort thing.
Then you gonna call attack function in fighter.
So you've got fighter as a sibling component call attack function with on that and test it.
Test it out see if you can click on target and get the right mod message.
Hit pause and try it out.
Okay so the key here is that when you look at the properties that come back from hit you can do this
with the autocomplete or you can do this by looking at the documentation.
There are a few things.
You've got the rigid body component you could use that you could use the collider component.
I think what I'm going to go and use because you might not have a rigid body basically all the transform
the transform would work just as well.
The transform of the rigid body or collider that was hit so because that works with either a rigid body
or Oracle I don't kind of inclined to go with him transform and then we can do a get component because
it is transform is a component remember and you can do get component on any component which gets all
the siblings or look through all the siblings and then what we're gonna do is look for the combat target.
Notice this isn't coming up even if I type it out in full let's not just slow autocomplete.
Let me just give you a mini challenge to figure out why do you think that's not coming up.
Just have a think about it and you might have guessed it.
Basically we haven't included the combat namespace so we are going to have to also include as well of
movement the combat means namespace.
You can see this is getting quite heavy.
The player controller is already getting many dependencies and you can think ahead a little bit.
If we had dialogue and so on being spawned this way it's going to depend on a lot of things.
Don't worry we'll sort that out later down the line we won't switch out just now.
So what we're going to have back here is a combat transform or target.
Sorry and I'm just gonna call it the targets like so and what we need to do is check if it's null.
So if the target is now what I'm gonna do is continue.
What does continue do might be a keyword you've never seen before we might might've seen return you
might seem break.
Maybe you haven't seen the either of that one either break we probably seen return continue is basically
a keyword that says carry on with this loop skip the rest of this body of the loop and go on to the
next item basically which means that everything after this line in the full body will inherently be
not no.
Because if it was no it would have carried on with the next iteration of the loop.
So it's another way of doing a god for inside a for loop.
So what we're gonna do here is we can do a target.
I mean actually gonna use target here.
That's a good point that we just did this to make sure we're filtering and making sure this hit result
is only on something that was a combat target.
So what I want to do now is if we have our inputs dots get mouse button like so then what we going to
do I'll get mouse button down in fact because I don't want to be able to hold down I don't want down
to attack on a click and start me attacking process.
So if the mouse button 0 is down then what we're going to do is we are going to get our sibling component
called the fighter and we're going to call attack on that like so and just one more thing.
I think what we can do here is in that fighter component we can have the combat target as an argument
to it.
We're not doing much with it at the moment but that's okay.
And we can just pass that in for later.
Don't worry if you didn't do that I'm just thinking ahead that we're gonna need to know who we are actually
trying to attack when we start the attacking process.
So let's try it out.
Hit play and if I hit the capsule they go take that you short squat peasant.
Only when I hit the capsule so I clicked multiple times it comes up multiple times.
Great.
So we've got our broadcasting happening on to a component and we're being able to detect this happening
to a component and then we're calling a function on our fighter method which is the starting point of
really getting the ball rolling here with attacking.
So I'll see you in then etc. where it will be progressing this fighting system.